In the previous lesson you've learn how to authorize your application using Gates.
Now in this lesson I'll show you another way to authorize your application using something called Policy.
All right let's head over to our terminal
and isolate our work in new branch
And as I said I'll call it lesson 12
dash b. OK to authorize our application using policies
firstly we need to create our policy class.
So here in the terminal we can say: php artisan make policy
sorry make policy
Then we have to specify the policy name because the policy usually used to authorize some actions for
a particular model then the name will start with our model name and end with policy.
So let's call it question policy.
If we hit return now
with a half question policy inside our
policies folder and if we open it
it's only empty class.
So let's remove this file
and I will run the make policy once again.
So here we can also add --model and specify the model name
In this case question like so
now if we opened the question policy again
it includes basic crud policy methods in our generated policy class.
Actually we only need update and delete method
So let's get rid of other methods
and here we'll find two arguments defined user and question.
It's almost the same when we're writing gates and inside here we'll do the same thing as we did when
we're working with Gates.
We match ID of the user with user ID in the question object
let's copy this line.
And paste instead here. And here
let's add another condition.
So the question that has one or more answers cannot be removed even by the Creator.
Here we simply add and operator and then check if question answers
less than one.
So this means if the user is the creator of the question and the question that will be removed has
no answer.
Then the creator of the question will be authorized to remove it.
All right once we have new policy the next thing we have to do is register the policy let's reopen the
auth service provider
and in policies attribute we simply map that particular model with particular policy.
In this case we'll map the question model class
to question policy class
and don't forget to import the namespace on the top here.
Now we have question policy and mapped it to a question model.
We can now
authorize our action in our question controller
here for example in edit method we can call this authorize to authorize this method
here
the name is update
so here we can specify update
as the first argument.
And the question
Instance in the second argument
again we don't need to specify the user instance because laravel will recognize that and handle
it behind the scene.
Let's do the same thing to update method.
this authorize update question
and the last
we also authorize the destroy method.
OK let's see. Let's find a question that belongs to someone else
OK let's try to hit this edit button.
All right we'll get the expected error.
Now let's try to hit the delete button
OK we got the same error.
Now let's hit this edit on our own question
Here we can edit that
now let's try to hit the delete button.
Note that the number of the answer is three.
If we hit OK
we'll also get an expected error.
So let me create new question
and here as you can see the answer is still zero.
Now if I hit the button and then hit OK
I can delete the question OK.
So now that we have authorized our application using policy in our control or to authorize some actions
now we can hide the edit and delete button as we did in the previous lesson.
So here we can say if auth user can
and then the name of the method
and pass in the question instance
let's copy this line and paste here. Change to delete and don't forget to close with endif
save the change
and reload the page.
All right
Now the buttons are only here for authorize user and here are you'll see the delete button is hidden
for the question that has answers.
OK great.
Actually here we can simplify this if statement with
can directive
and remove the extra crossing parenthesis.
So this mean if the current user can update the question then we'll show the edit button.
And here we change this endif with endcan
we can do the same thing here.
can delete
end change with end can
save and let's see
ups I get error
Let me see.
Sorry I made typo here.
This would be end can reload again.
And here we'll get the same thing.
Now one more thing that we need to do is protect the create method because if we sign out
from the application
go to questions
and then hit this ask question button here I can access the ask question form.
So to fix this let's go
to questions controller.
And in here we need to define contructor
Constructor is a special method that will be executed for the first time whenever a class is instantiated
in php
We can write the constructor like so
and in here we'll call authentication middleware like so
and here there are two methods that users don't need to be a authenticated index method because anyone can
see all the questions.
And the second is show method.
anyone can also see the detail of the question so we can define in the second argument like this
Index and show save.
Now if we reload the page
we will be redirected to login page.
OK so now that we have implemented authorization to authorize the questions so that they can be modified
only by owner or by creator of the questions.
All right before we close this lesson let's save our work to our git repo.
Let's switch to our terminal
and here we can say git add all git commit -m
and I'll say implement authorization
using policy
then push the current branch
OK
Now we can switch to our master branch
and here we can merge our master branch
to lesson-12-a or to lesson-12-b
So if you prefer to use gate then you can merge your master branch to lesson-12-a or to branch name
where are you working with gate.
But here I prefer to use policy
So here I'll merge my master branch to lesson-12-b
last we can push our master branch to our remote repo.